(gentle guitar tune)
As our bodies pass through the stages of life
most people begin losing energy.
This devitalization has many contributing factors,
not the least of which is a reduction
in our body's production of certain critical hormones.
In an attempt to stem the effects of hormone loss
many women, in particular, have been consuming
synthetic hormones and what's called
hormone replacement therapy
but medicine has seen the downsides now including cancer.
Doctor Theresa Dale, a naturopath and founder
of the California College of Natural Medicine,
says there's a much safer and more effective means
of balancing our hormones.
She calls it her hormone revitalization system
and it's based on homeopathy.
I'm so happy to be sitting here talking to you
about this subject because there is a great deal
of conflicted information and confusion around it,
and I know that probably quite a few of our viewers
watching this right now are wondering
what to do as we go through life
and the hormone profile starts changing,
we don't feel quite as vital as we used to
and then all the other things start cascading.
And what intrigues me about your work
is when I read that you can use homeopathics
in the rebalancing of hormones,
it peaked my curiosity to where we just took a detour
north to Ventura to see you today.
And I'm so grateful that you did.
Well, and I am too, I'm very happy
I found out about you albeit at the last moment,
so I can't wait...
It's neat because I get to find out along
with everybody else what this story is about.
Fantastic.
Let's start out first of all with the human body,
what happens naturally when we start
having diminishing hormones as we get to a certain age
and why we should even bother doing anything about it
at all, I mean that's another question, I suppose.
We could just go into degeneration.
Well, you know, as we know from our grandmothers
and historically the way women have cycled
because we know, I know historically how women have cycled
and according to the tides of the Earth
and the moon and all of that historically.
What we know is that when women reach
a certain age depending upon their biological
intelligence or biological age
or their genetics that their body
really starts changing the way it produces hormones.
And this could be very indicative
of a person who does not handle stress well,
who has created a voluminous amount
or a massive amount of stress in their life,
and I use the word, created, because I believe
that in some respect, we actually create our own reality
and we can actually heal our own disease
because basically people,
it's legal to heal your own disease.
A lot of people, when I lecture, say to me,
"Gee, can I do that ? Can I really heal my disease?"
I say, "There's no law against it.
"Why not? You can do anything you want."
So, at a certain age, the ovaries
start producing less hormones but the real problem here
is the hypothalamus pituitary adrenal axis.
You've got, abbreviated it's an HPA axis,
and that axis has to be balanced
or hormones are going to be imbalanced, okay?
So the hypothalamus, the pituitary, the adrenals
have to be communicating
with the ovaries, with themselves,
and then if they're not, it's because of stress,
it's because of lifestyle, medications.
Hormones can throw, if you're taking medication hormones
it can throw and will throw the HPA axis
out of balance so that your body will no longer
produce the correct amount of hormones
and your adrenal glands will be very unhappy.
And as we get older, we depend upon the adrenal glands
to pick it up and make the hormones that you need
because that's what their job is.
But often times health providers
don't tell their patients that.
Instead, they just prescribe hormones.
But if they prescribed homeopathy or nutrition
or herbology or diet or something else,
the person would feel so much better.
They wouldn't become dependent
on using hormones of any kind.
So when we're under stress,
we can actually have hot flashes from it.
Women contact us and say,
"All of a sudden, everything was going well
"and my mother died and now I'm having hot flashes."
That's because of the stress, okay?
If you drink too much caffeine, it stresses and exhausts
and dehydrates the adrenal glands.
So even sometimes a little bit of caffeine can do that
and sometimes green tea can do that as well.
A lot of people think, oh, green tea is fine
but not necessarily, it depends on your body
and the sensitivity and your genetics.
So we're looking at the hypothalamus pituitary adrenal axis
as far as that being balanced key.
So what I decided to do after practising for 30 years,
I decided that I had had enough of women
coming in to me with hysterectomies or mastectomies
and knowing that their hormones were out of balance
yet their blood tests were okay
and I thought there is a problem here.
Many years ago, 15, 20 years ago,
I started investigating saliva testing.
And that has come a very long way
historically and as far as through research.
The lab that I work with, the owner invented saliva testing
and he has done
millions of women all over the world
comparing the studies from England, women in England,
how it is their saliva testing from England
or from Germany or from other countries--
Different gene pools, different environments.
Right, from the Middle East, so his research
is really phenomenal and I give him a lot of credit.
And I gleaned a lot of information from that
so that I could do my research because blood testing,
the reference ranges are too wide
and it's not sensitive enough.
Saliva testing shows the free unbound hormones, unbound,
so it's more sensitive and you get a quicker reading
on what's going on with your body, in other words,
if you started taking hormones
and then tested it two months from now,
you may not see very much of a difference.
If you did it four months from now,
let's say you start taking hormones now,
in four months you may not see too much of a difference,
maybe a little bit towards them going up.
But after a year of taking blood tests
you may see a little bit more difference
but let's compare that now to saliva testing.
After two months of your doing bioidentical hormones
or phytoestrogens or synthetic hormones,
you're gonna see the definite reality of what it's doing
to your body, no uncertain terms.
Two months, three months, at the most.
And then when you start using
diet and natural things and seeing how it corrects it,
you're gonna be able to see the correction in two months,
where your body is in two months
after starting your program.
Women love that because they have,
it's not an instant vision but two months
isn't that long compared to waiting a year or eight months
or six months to see something.
So in working with the hypothalamus pituitary adrenal axis,
just ovarian functioning
and all those symptomologies that women have
as they go through menopause,
I decided to make my hormone rejuvenation cremes
from homeopathy without any preservatives
or without any fragrances and all very clean
and a medical grade, liposome-based that was transdermal.
And then I set about a course
to start testing to see if it works.
Well, everybody knows homeopathy
has a 200-year-old history and that it works.
Right.
But I formulated things together,
combination of formulas together in a synergistic way
and I wanted to see if it took anything away
from the efficacy of homeopathy or it added to the efficacy
and just seeing what it would do.
We had such phenomenal success
from our doctors that I trained which are over 1,000
health providers that I trained, that I said,
"Okay, this is really good, this is really good,"
and because we could see within two months
that there was a change and we could see which way
the change was going, if it was getting better,
how much better, and what are they eating,
are they following the program or not,
are they drinking coffee or not?
Because caffeine neutralizes homeopathy.
It neutralizes the effects of homeopathy along with a few
other things but that's really the main thing.
So in other words, if you're using homeopathy
and then you drink caffeine, you just wiped it out.
And that means even green tea,
even the slightest bit of caffeine?
Yes, even so.
And I have seen it in cases
where when I did my research in Germany,
I studied there for nine years,
going there for months and coming back and working
on patients, going there for another four, five months--
Is it the Hahnemann?
No, it was actually through the Hans Bergman
Institute in Munich.
Okay.
And through their organization they set up
English classes with physicists and biophysicists
so I learned the most phenomenal
holistic medicine with things that people
in the United States have never heard of,
like neural therapy,
like advanced homeopathy
using the blood, urine, and saliva of the patient,
making a homeopathic remedy from blood, urine, and saliva
to cure disease, any disease.
And that's what they do in Europe and they use
live cell therapy and I've learned, so it was like,
I couldn't wait to go back for the next journey,
it was like so exciting.
Oh, yes.
So, my point is that...
Using homeopathy is the best way to handle hormones
because it cannot overproduce estrogens.
And when a woman has cancer,
that is a vital concern
of the doctor, endocrinologist, and of the patient
not to use anything that will exacerbate estrogen
and to create estrogen dominance.
You don't want to do that.
So homeopathy cannot do that, it's not possible.
It will balance hormones, it will balance the progesterone,
estrogen, testosterone, depending upon the formula.
So after all this time, I have 20,000
before-and-after saliva tests or more.
I stopped counting a few years ago at 20,000.
I think that's a fair enough test.
Right, and I don't think there are any other people
whether it's at the FDA or any of the pharmaceutical
companies that actually test over a couple of hundred,
maybe a couple of thousand people at the very most.
So I went way beyond that to prove that homeopathy works.
It works in a synergistic way in the formulas that I have
which include homeopathic ingredients
to balance cortisol, to balance the adrenal function,
progesterone, and all of the good estrogens,
free testosterone,
to handle the hypothalamus pituitary adrenal axis,
so it's really, very, very thorough and I think
that's why we're having such great success with it.
But it's not only about taking a supplement
or using homeopathic formulas.
It's about the diet, it's about your mind,
it's about what you're thinking, what you're believing,
what you're feeling,
how much you love yourself to take care of yourself
and never giving away your power to any doctor or anyone.
Never.
I mean, if you do that, no telling what can happen.
You know, I see the results of that every day.
So we want to really understand that education
is power and that what you're doing by interviewing me
and others is giving people the power
to take a different action,
to take a better action and make a better choice for them.
So I really believe that we need to reach people,
communicate that they can heal their body.
This is one of the reasons why in 1994,
I created the California College of Natural Medicine.
I founded it, I've written all the curriculum for it,
it's state-approved in California.
We have some entry-level trainings and we also have
trainings that require prerequisites like licensure.
So it's online, we have online courses
and residential courses so anybody who's watching this today
can actually take an action step
to learn more through what you're doing
and also if they choose to take it further
by taking a training in clinical nutrition
or homeopathic medical practitioner--
I think quite a few of our viewers
are already involved in the healthcare industry
in some way or another.
Right, and what's really great is that people can take it
to the next level because homeopathy is vast.
When I studied in Europe,
I saw miracles happen with people
with grand mal seizures where I saw doctors injecting,
doing neural therapy and injecting homeopathy
into acupuncture points.
Some of them were in the head
and I've seen it stop seizures immediately.
I've seen all kinds of things that, in this country,
is not explored because of our AMA
and all the FDA and everything.
And we're pretty much, we're on that page.
We understand that part, now as you're talking,
I'm wondering about the...
I have two or three different strands of thought going on.
One of them is, certainly the person that's out there
talking the loudest about all this would be Suzanne Somers,
right, and the books she's written.
And she does have an overall approach to health
and the emotional aspects of life
but she's really big on the bioidenticals.
Right.
So now let's talk about standard HRT,
hormone replacement therapy that's synthetic
that you're going to get from your doctor
at your HMO and then go through from there
to the bioidenticals and then into homeopathics
so we can see the difference.
And there's also the phytoestrogens that you buy
in health food stores and the progesterone creme.
They're in health food stores
in a creme form as a cosmeceutical.
Yes, now let's talk about all of those
and what's actually going on from your studies.
Okay.
Starting with HRT.
Whether it's, what I've seen to cut to the chase
is from looking at 20,000 saliva tests,
before-and after, is that no matter
whether it is synthetic or it is biosimilar,
biosimilar, once it's compounded, it's no longer natural,
so the supposedly bioidentical hormones are compounded.
So at that point, it is not exactly
the same as what the body produces although in a petri dish,
in a test tube, they may have created something
bioidentically that they feel is bioidentically similar
but your body doesn't look at it that way.
And one of the reasons is that we have a chronobiology
about our body, our circadian rhythm cycle,
and at certain times of the day, afternoon, and evening,
we make different amounts of hormones at different times.
Once you start putting hormones into your body,
that whole chronobiology
and the circadian rhythm cycle is skewed
because the body is used to doing its own hormones,
it making its own hormones.
So then the body starts aging
because it's no longer able to do it the way
that it should be doing it and you have weight gain,
you have just a lot of different symptoms,
and I have had women come to us and tell us
that they have cancer from the bioidentical hormones
and Suzanne Somers,
and I bless her and everyone and have nothing negative
to say and don't want to put that out there,
but just in general about bioidentical hormones
is that she had cancer
while she was using the bioidentical hormones.
And I've spoken to and tested
patients who had cancer from using it
and doctors have reported that to me as well,
and you can see that on a saliva test
because on the saliva test I do,
there's an HRT range
that's just a little bit higher than the normal range
and if they fall within that range, it's not too bad.
It's okay.
But most of the ones that we see
in bioidentical hormones from using saliva testing,
it's like 500 times normal, 1,000 times normal.
We're talking majorly toxic for the body
and that's what I see, so I just report in my book
what I see from these tests.
Now, I don't have access to the saliva specimens
when they go into the lab, I don't have access to them,
I don't own the lab, I have nothing to do with all of that.
I just look at all the research
and I develop comprehensive wellness
optimization programs for my doctors' patients
and then after that, we retest to see how it worked.
Is their estrogens down, how is their cancer,
is it getting better, what's the situation here?
There can be many things involved with this.
Now, to answer your question about the bioidenticals,
there is no proof and this is what the FDA says,
that they are any different than synthetic, and I concur.
I see no difference in the levels.
I see no difference in the outcome
which is more important than anything.
Okay.
You know what I'm saying?
Because a lot of people,
and their doctors putting them on the right amount
because they're coming to me and saying,
"What am I doing wrong here?
"There is a problem with this patient.
"This is what I have her on, let's do a saliva test,
"you tell me what you think."
That's what I know.
And so the biggest downside then,
from your observation, would be developing
a cancer of some kind.
Or strokes or blood clots or something else.
Because maybe they're feeling better.
Maybe they're saying, "Gosh, I've got a lot
"of my energy back, I'm zipping around."
But then, long-term, they may run into these other issues.
Right, we're concerned long-term,
like more than two, three months.
We're concerned with long-term.
Long-term, how it shuts down the adrenal glands
and the adrenals start getting tired
and they're not working anymore.
Is that again because you've unlinked yourself
from the circadian rhythm?
Yes, and also because they have
their own cellular intelligence and they know
that they're supposed to be making these hormones,
and all of a sudden it's...
What happened?
Guess I don't need to make them anymore.
Right, well, that makes sense.
Now what happens when a person's gotten to the point
where they're kind of tanked on all of these hormones,
the body is not making a lot of them anymore?
Well, the point is that I've never seen anyone,
even 85 years old, that didn't make hormones.
You would be dead if you didn't make hormones,
so you are making hormones in small amounts
and all you have to do is to revitalize your hormones
by revitalizing, detoxifying, give the body
the proper nutrition and having the person eat correctly,
and let's look at what they're thinking.
When people call and say,
"I'm miserable today and blah, blah, blah,"
and I talk to them on the phone many times and I say,
"Okay, tell me what good is going on in your life."
They go, "What do you mean?"
And I say, "What is positive going on in your life?"
And it's like I'm, hello, to Earth.
All of a sudden they got it and they go,
"Well, I guess I never think about what's going on
"that's good in my life."
And that is key.
That's a sad comment.
It is sad.
It's true for many, many people.
When I talk to somebody, I want to know all the good
and what they're feeling
and I want to know how much their time they spend
being grateful for being alive, having this opportunity,
and what action steps are people taking to heal their body.
Detoxification, every six months to a year,
a person should do detox.
And for that purpose,
and because I work with outpatient clinics of hospitals,
so when they go into the outpatient clinic,
they're on 19 meds, the docs call me, we put them
on my organic, wildcrafted in vegicap,
herbal formulas to detoxify them
and get them off of the medications.
That's key.
Believe me, there are some establishments,
some clinics, some hospitals today, that are starting
to shift and change into a more holistic way
of doing things because people want it.
So when you said the wildcrafted herbs
are one of the way that you would recommend--
Detoxify as well as homeopathy, yeah.
And what are some of the things a person
who can't get to you or another practitioner can do
to also help detoxify themselves,
say, a couple of times a year, once a year?
Okay, well, first of all, to do that,
you want to look at your diet, you want to eliminate
as much as possible
or any foods with preservatives or chemicals in them,
and I would definitely eliminate any meats
that are not organic, period.
If you're eating out, just don't eat meat for that meal.
Eat something else but try to eat at organic establishments
if you can or buy organic food,
clean it well because it still can have parasites on it.
Parasites are a big deal, a lot of people have them
and a lot of people don't know they have them.
Most people who have cancer have them,
possibly candida along with it.
We need to always take a look at that.
I have, on my website, detoxification information
as far as a deep cleanse with a variety of herbs
including milk thistle but many other herbs,
ginger, turmeric, a number of things that are organic
and wildcrafted that you can take
to detoxify all the filtering organs.
If you just detoxify one filtering organ like the liver,
then your kidneys are gonna be kind of upset
because they may start having little aches or little pains
because they can't handle all of the toxins coming out.
So I developed a system that incorporates
four herbal products to detoxify
all of the filtering organs, the blood, the colon,
the liver, and the kidneys,
and while it strengthens the immune system.
It has some mushrooms in it,
variety of different things that is needed
for each filtering organ so that when you detox,
it flows out and nothing
gets redistributed in the bloodstream
because if you don't do it that way, it can be reabsorbed.
If your colon isn't working good, it'll be reabsorbed.
So you need to have a little education
before you go on a detox.
I think so and we have beautiful instructions
on our website that are designed to help people.
Wonderful.
Yeah, as well as the diet.
I mean, the diet is very important and organic vegetables,
a lot of vegetables, some fruits,
seeds may be good, some people don't have a good...
Sometimes they don't do very well with nuts
because they have a gallbladder issue
and so those kinds of fats can be a problem.
Right.
You mentioned a little bit ago and we haven't gone
through that part and that is the phytoestrogens
and also the over-the-counter progesterone.
Right, that's a really good point.
I'm sorry I forgot that.
So we have...
I see this a lot.
I had a 36-year-old woman come in whose husband
is a medical doctor and she wanted to get pregnant.
He wanted to get pregnant.
He put her on progesterone creme from the health food store.
Okay, and her progesterone,
instead of it making it normal at 220,
it was 6,650.
Oh!
Now, those are the levels I'm talking about with this.
I'm not talking about five points too high.
Was she just flying and feeling great
or her libido had skyrocketed or what?
At first, she started feeling a little better
but then, within a couple of months,
she had anxiety and was nervous
and had some insomnia and was very agitated.
What it actually did was exacerbate
her already-low estrogen
so she had 0.9 estrogen.
No one's gonna get pregnant like that.
So I pointed out to her that stress
was a really big part of why she was not conceiving
and that if you look at the third-world countries
and how they have children
without even good food or good water,
without anything, how they conceive,
that they have a different kind of stress,
they have a survival stress.
She didn't have that kind but she had other kind,
a work-related stress.
Anyway, we got her detoxed from that 6,650
down to 220 and she conceived
but more importantly, we brought the estrogen up
and all with homeopathy and diet.
It probably took four or five months.
Now, when you say with homeopathy,
this is one of the other strains of thought
I wanted to follow, and a lot of times
like cures like with homeopathy but you're not necessarily
using hormones to boost hormones
within homeopathy and within the remedies, right?
Right.
So what are you using?
Well, we are using
dioscorea, we're using wild jam
in making the homeopathic remedy from that
as well as from cortisol
that is taken from,
and this has been done throughout history in homeopathy,
you can find some of these things in materia medica,
like testosterone is in there, and they take it
from a bull's testicles
and they extract it and then they purify it
and then they make it into a homeopathic formula.
So that's the way the hormones are dealt with.
It's called the sarcode
which is from healthy glands of animals.
I never use--
Of healthy animals.
Yes, I never use pigs, I won't have anything
from pigs, really, in my formulas
because there's...
It's just something that I've never really liked
even though they do it in Germany quite a bit
but we don't have German pigs, we have American pigs.
(Regina laughs)
I just don't know about American pigs.
German pigs, they're sacred and they're used for homeopathy.
It's a whole different deal there
when you are making homeopathic remedies.
Most of it bovine then?
Yeah, so homeopathy is made
from chemicals, heavy metals,
all kinds of toxic things like snake venoms,
very, very interesting remedies even from dog's mother milk,
from human's mother milk,
from herbs, from everything.
And people say...
They wonder about homeopathy saying,
"Okay, so it's all vegetarian, right?"
And I go, "No, no, no."
It's energy medicine, it's the memory or the imprint
of the original substance and there's nothing toxic in it.
But you can take arsenic which would kill you
and make a homeopathic remedy and it would cure
the same symptoms that arsenic would cause
if you took it.
So that's the way it works, like cures like.
Okay, so that's what I wanted to know
is what the sources were, is how you get
this like-cures-like with hormones with no hormones.
Well, that makes perfect sense.
Now the phytoestrogens, I still didn't answer
that question, they're in the health food store
as a cosmetic, as a cosmeceutical.
The progesterone cremes, they're not approved
by the FDA to go for what they're being really used for
and I think that's kind of...
I don't know why it's exactly that way
but it causes, really imbalances in people.
It's not that the body doesn't look at that
as being even biosimilar.
So you have to be careful of these things.
Now saying that, I like maca root.
I think that's really good for people
and if you take it in small amounts--
What's a small amount?
Well, depends on each person.
Like a teaspoon or two a few times a week, small amounts.
So sometimes when you say, "I like maca," people go
and take the tablespoons and put it in their smoothie.
Yeah, I'll put like a teaspoon in the smoothie
three times a weeks or so.
Yeah, you do small amounts of things and you try it
that way first to see how your body likes it
and to see if it's biocompatible with you.
And what is the maca doing for us?
It's helping our testosterone levels,
it's helping with energy, it's very healing,
it also can be very beneficial for some men as well,
and I particularly like it for females.
I mean, there's many, many good things.
I don't recommend eating soy
because of the estrogenic effect of the actual food.
And for women who have things
like cysts and fibroids, I have a line
of homeopathic remedies that not only balance hormones
but can be used for cysts and fibroids
because they have the original homeopathic remedies
in them that are used for that.
Now, in my book, Revitalize Your Hormones,
in the back is a 16-page compendium on homeopathy
and it lists individual homeopathic remedies
that are used for female complaints.
Not my remedies because it's a major publisher,
not my formulas.
But it's things like, you can use...
Look at it this way.
If a person has a cyst,
then there are certain remedies that are good for that
or if they have a fibroid.
And if they have cancer, there are certain remedies
that are used and those are all in the book.
Okay, excellent.
It looks like a wonderful resource
and it has a little self-test in it along the way, too.
It has a little self-test and a very large
biological age test
so you can see what your real age is
and that age, in other words, I'll have a woman
who's in her thirties and her biological age will be like 64
because she's smoking or she's drinking too much alcohol
or whatever the reason is.
So you can make your biological age younger
and that is the most important thing.
Chronologically, almost in a way doesn't matter
if you're biologically healthy.
Mm-hmm.
Yes, that makes sense.
So let's say we have somebody who is just feeling listless,
they've passed through menopause, male or female,
and, say, they've already embraced and taken on
and been on hormones for a few years.
Is it a big transition to transition off of that
into the more natural ways of boosting the systems?
That's a great, great question.
Many people think they have to wean themselves off of it.
I have not seen that.
I've seen, as long as they're stopping them today...
I have to say this legally.
I may not agree with it but I have to say legally
that you have to ask your doctor.
Right.
But if you have what's gonna help you
and stop it one day, do a detox,
and at the same time with my detox
do the hormone rejuvenation formulas
that you need, you will feel better.
Okay.
So you don't have to worry about that.
I've never seen that.
If a person doesn't detox and if they stop everything,
and if they don't detox,
if they don't start the formulas right away, possibly.
But as long as you're starting with the formulas
to balance things out and make the ratios
between your progesterone and estrogen balanced,
I actually have a breast and uterine index
on my saliva test which shows how susceptible
the person is to cancer, which is a great thing
because I can see the levels of where they are right now.
Hey, we need to get working on this and this is what
you need to do, we'll do another test and it gets corrected.
But it takes them doing it, it's not a magical thing.
Right, I mean that's true.
In Western culture, we've all been conditioned to look
for magic bullets, the medical industry keeps telling us
when is right around the corner, of course, there isn't one.
Never has been one right around the corner.
Not to say that the discovery of antibiotics
for certain conditions wasn't a real breakthrough,
absolutely, but I mean almost short of that.
I know, it's not right to, I don't need to go on about it.
I think most people listening
know what I'm trying to say here.
Now, another thing, you had mentioned this in passing
that you train over 1,000 doctors.
Now, are these mostly naturopaths that you're training?
Medical doctors, chiropractors,
all different types of licensed health providers
and I have a certification that I teach
four or five times a year that's state-approved
and they get a certificate and it's action-packed two days.
It's neuroendocrine and anti-aging regulation
and it's also hands-on.
As much as I believe in saliva testing,
it's not the be-all and end-all because a doctor needs
to put their hand on the patient and test them and use
neurophysical testing which I developed,
and then you can therapy localize and find out
if they have a liver problem,
then you can test to see if the mercury in their mouth
is causing the liver problem, like what's causing it.
So I teach them to therapy localize to find out
what's causing the problem specifically
because if you don't know that, you don't know anything.
You have to find out the specific cause
and through doing the neurophysical testing,
you can do that.
That's what the whole thing is about.
I know you're obviously an extremely busy woman
in taking people on but a lot of people will hear
this interview, taking people on is not necessarily
an option for you because you don't have
that many hours in your year.
But there are people out there, do you have people
that you can recommend that people can go to who have--
I've trained, as you know, a lot of doctors
and when they've been through my certification,
then I can recommend them wholeheartedly.
Sometimes I go in and out of times
where I have to see people because I love it
and it's really more stressful for me to not see them
than to see them, do you know what I mean?
I do.
And I have a lot of doctors that need help and they fly in
but the general public, it's kind of difficult to do that
because I don't know them that well at the beginning
so it can be a little bit difficult.
But the point is there are resources.
Absolutely.
If they go
to your website, maybe even email you
and ask for someone that's recommended in their area.
I have a link called Find a Provider.
Oh, good, and then in the end,
for whoever chooses to educate themselves in advance
so at least they know the questions to ask,
is your book which is Revitalize Your Hormones
which seems to me, from just thumbing through it
before we started this interview,
looks to me to be a fabulous resource.
It is and thank you,
and it's called Doctor Dale's Seven Steps to a Healthier,
Happier, and Sexier You because when you're feeling better,
you're feeling more like being intimate.
That is true, when you have energy.
Yeah, and you can even be, in a way,
much more intimate with yourself
by looking inside and really examining
your belief systems and see what needs to be changed,
what doesn't serve you any longer.
It's harder to do that when you're sick.
Unless your back is up against the wall
and you're really having a difficult challenge
and then you go okay, let me do this real quick,
let me get into this now,
and I've seen just about everything.
I do love working with patients and clients
but they can find that, go through that link on the website.
It's fascinating, I think a lot of people
just want to understand their own bodies better,
their own energy systems better, and the points
you've made about throwing one out of balance by trying
to heal another is true in almost every area.
There are so many well-intentioned and wonderful people
out there with wonderful products but what happens
is this balance seems to get thrown off in so many people
that are really trying to help themselves.
Right, and I think one of the important things to learn
when you want to help yourself, you want to make
your life better, happier,
you want to help your friends, your loved ones,
is that supplements are not created equal.
Even though one is very expensive
and the other one is very cheap,
doesn't mean the one that's very expensive is better.
You want to stay away from supplements that have
magnesium stearate in it or any kind
of preservative or any flow agent.
See, magnesium stearate is a flow agent
to get the supplement to flow out of the equipment easily
so it doesn't damage the equipment,
so that it goes and shoots into the capsule.
And I only started really educating myself on this
when I started making my products because I had to deal
in the business world and I had to deal with business people
who were not health providers
and were making supplements.
The cost of buying something that's made in China
is one-tenth of what it would cost
if you bought it from the United States.
I don't have any ingredients in my products from China
because they contain heavy metals
and actually, any vitamin that has minerals
like powders, calcium, if you have a calcium tablet
or calcium liquid and if it contains minerals in it,
it has at least five parts per million of heavy metals,
lead, mercury, cadmium in it.
What about the sea kelp sources, for example?
Calcium.
Calcium from seaweed
and things like that, that's fine
if it's from that or it's ionIc.
If it's ionic, okay.
If it's ionic.
But just avoid the basic powders.
All the powders and they're in all kinds of supplements.
You see them and people take too much calcium.
In Germany, when I was studying there,
they would say, "Oh, you got to get those people
"off of that calcium, it makes kidney stones.
"Why do doctors use it?"
And it's the truth, I see that they're taking
1,200 mg a day of calcium and then they end up
with a kidney stone, you see?
So you really need to be aware of that
and use clean supplements.
Do you cover some of that in the book?
A little bit, yes.
Okay, good.
Now what's the problem with magnesium stearate?
What does that do to us?
It affects the immune system.
It's an immune suppressor.
But that's important for everyone to know
because it's in a lot of stuff.
It's in everything.
Yeah, I see it on the labels all the time.
I see it, too, and some people say,
"Oh, mine is vegetarian.
"Okay, mine is vegetarian."
Well, actually,
companies that make the products can tell you
that it's from vegetarian source
but they could never prove it to me.
Send me the certificate of analysis and show me
that it's from vegetarian source and show me
the breakdown of the molecular structure of this.
I don't deal with that company because they couldn't show me
so this is the problem, is that you have
to be extremely careful what you put in your body
when you're trying to get well, your body is so sensitive.
Any final thoughts?
Thank you very much for interviewing me
and giving me an opportunity to share what I do.
Absolutely, we'll start getting this information
out there, I can guarantee you that I have a lot
of wonderful girlfriends and I'm sure all of them
are going to be reading this book
and many, many thousands more who will be watching this
among our viewing audience that are our CMN friends.
I'm very happy that you've exposed all of us to this
because most of us know someone who is on HRTs
or is contemplating them or has been.
Right.
And to give us a little clarity
that there are options because it's one
of those double-edged swords where many women and men, too,
a little different spectrum, I understand
it is a little different in dealing with men than women,
quite different, but nonetheless, they really do want
to do something to help themselves toward having
a more vital feeling in their lives and feel like,
oh, my god, I have to deal with the devil and go on the HRT
or something and it's sad.
It's sad to think that there is no other genuine option.
Right, the only thing I would say, just to wind up,
is that to have hope.
There's no such thing as false hope, there's only hope,
and that you need to really look at your belief systems,
look at what you hold in your mind
and how still you can make it during the evening or day,
do meditation.
I cannot tell you how many people have benefited
from my book, Transform Your Emotional DNA.
It's a self-help book and I'm gonna give you one.
Thank you.
And you can pretty much use the techniques in this.
In Revitalize Your Hormones, there's another technique
for balancing your emotion.
And we were talking off-camera
as Scott was setting up, about the fact that Bruce Lipton
who, many of our viewers hold dear and we do, too,
we adore Bruce, was exposed to your work years ago.
In 1994, right.
Maybe slightly after I came out with it in 1994.
I don't remember the exact date I handed it to him
but it was at a Parker chiropractic convention
where I was lecturing.
And he appreciated it.
I hope so.
Yeah, good, I hope so, too.
It sounds like it from a lot of the work he's done,
it could've been a source of some of his work
but we won't speculate on that.
I'm just glad you handed him one.
(Theresa laughs)
Well, thank you so much, Theresa,
and I look forward to reading both these books.
Thank you.
To learn more about this safe form
of hormone revitalization, you can visit Theresa's website
at wellnesscenter.net.
I find this a total breath of fresh air on the subject
that has carried loads of angst for decades now.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.